.TH OPENHA 1 "August 2016" "" "User's Manual"
.SH NAME
openha \- Heartbeat daemon administration

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B openha status
.TP
.B openha ps
.TP
.B openha kill
.TP
.B openha hb -s
.TP
.B openha hb -a -n \fInode\fR \fB-t\fR \fInet\fR|\fIunicast\fR \fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR \fB-d\fR \fIaddress\fR \fB-p\fR \fIport\fR \fB-T\fR \fItimeout\fR
.TP
.B openha hb -r -n \fInode\fR \fB-t\fR \fInet\fR|\fIunicast\fR \fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR \fB-d\fR \fIaddress\fR \fB-p\fR \fIport\fR
.TP
.B openha hb -a -n \fInode\fR \fB-t\fR \fIdisk\fR|\fIdio\fR \fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR \fB-d\fR \fIaddress\fR \fB-T\fR \fItimeout\fR
.TP
.B openha hb -r -n \fInode\fR \fB-t\fR \fIdisk\fR|\fIdio\fR \fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR \fB-d\fR \fIaddress\fR
.TP
.B openha service -s \fR[\fB\-c\fR]
.TP
.B openha service -i \fIservice\fR
.TP
.B openha service -A \fIservice\fR \fIstart\fR|\fIstop\fR|\fIfreeze-stop\fR|\fIfreeze-start\fR|\fIunfreeze\fR|\fIforce-stop\fR|\fIforce-start\fR
.TP
.B openha service -r \fIservice\fR
.TP
.B openha service -a \fIservice\fR \fIservice\fR \fIscript\fR \fIprimary\fR \fIsecondary\fR \fIcheck_up_script\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B openha
command is used to configure heartbeat links, services that should be stopped 
and started upon heartbeats events and system boot/shutdown, display heartbeats
and services states, trigger service actions.

.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B status
Display the heartbeats and services states.
.TP
.B ps
Display the running system processes. nmond is the heartbeats aggregator and
services manager. Every heartbeat link has a sender process (heartd) and a
listener process (heartc).
.TP
.B kill
Kill the nmond and all heartbeat processes.
.TP
.B openha hb -s
Display heartbeats states.
.TP
.B openha hb -a
Add a heartbeat link.
.RS
.TP
.B \-n \fInode\fR
The node on which the following arguments are used to start a sender process.
For any other node, the following arguments are used to start a listener.
.TP
.B \-t \fInet\fR|\fIunicast\fR|\fIdisk\fR|\fIdio\fR
The heartbeat driver to use for the link.
.RS
.TP
.I net
Multicast heartbeat driver.
.TP
.I unicast
Unicast heartbeat driver.
.TP
.I disk
Raw device heartbeat driver.
.TP
.I dio
Direct I/O heartbeat driver. Linux only.
.RE
.TP
.B \-i \fIinterface\fR
The interface to send/listen on or device to read/write to.
.TP
.B \-d \fIaddress\fR
The ip address to send/listen on or device offset to read/write to.
.TP
.B \-p \fIport\fR
The tcp port to send/listen on.
.TP
.B \-T \fItimeout\fR
The delay in seconds \fBnmond\fR waits before considering the heartbeat link is down if no heartbeat message has been received.
.RE
.TP
.B openha hb -r
Remove a heartbeat link.
.RS
.TP
.B \-n \fInode\fR
The node on which the following arguments are used to start a sender process.
For any other node, the following arguments are used to start a listener.
.TP
.B \-t \fInet\fR|\fIunicast\fR|\fIdisk\fR|\fIdio\fR
The heartbeat driver to use for the link.
.RS
.TP
.I net
Multicast heartbeat driver.
.TP
.I unicast
Unicast heartbeat driver.
.TP
.I disk
Raw device heartbeat driver.
.TP
.I dio
Direct I/O heartbeat driver. Linux only.
.RE
.TP
.B \-i \fIinterface\fR
The interface to send/listen on or device to read/write to.
.TP
.B \-d \fIaddress\fR
The ip address to send/listen on or device offset to read/write to.
.TP
.B \-p \fIport\fR
The tcp port to send/listen on.
.RE
.TP
.B openha service -s
Display services states.
.RS
.TP
.B -c
Columned mode. Display a single line per service.
.RE
.TP
.B openha service -i
Display information on the specified service: role of the local node (primary or secondary) and service state on each node.
.TP
.B openha service -A
Trigger an action on the service.
.RS
.TP
.I start
Start the service.
.TP
.I stop
Stop the service. Be aware that \fBnmond\fR will can start decision as soon as the service is stopped.
.TP
.I freeze-stop
Stop the service, leaving it in the FROZEN_STOP state to keep \fBnmond\fR from restarting it.
.TP
.I freeze-start
Put the service in the FREEZE_START state, without calling the \fIscript\fR. In this state, \fBnmond\fR no longer triggers actions on this service.
.TP
.I unfreeze
Transition from the FROZEN_STOP state to the STOPPED state, or from the FROZEN_START to the STARTED state
.TP
.I force-stop
Transition to the STOPPED state without calling the \fIscript\fR. Be aware that \fBnmond\fR will can start decision as soon as the service is stopped.
.TP
.I force-start
Transition to the STARTED state without calling the \fIscript\fR.
.RE
.TP
.B openha service -r
Remove a service.
.RS
.TP
.I service
The service to remove.
.RE
.TP
.B openha service -a
Add a service.
.RS
.TP
.I service
The service to add.
.TP
.I script
The full path to the script to call to start or stop the service. The script is called with either \fIstart\fR or \fIstop\fR as first argument.
.TP
.I primary
The node to consider primary for the service. This node is prefferred if both nodes have the service in the START_READY state.
.TP
.I secondary
The node to consider secondary for the service. This node is not prefferred if both nodes have the service in the START_READY state.
.TP
.I check_up_script
The full path of a script called before calling the \fIscript\fR. If the \fIcheck_up_script\fR return a non-zero value, the \fIscript\fR is not run and the service transitions to START_FAILED.
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
.B openha
was created by Samuel Godbillot and is now maintained by OpenSVC,
<support@opensvc.com>.
